L2EP updates (#2452)
smartcontractkit/documentation: src/content/data-feeds/l2-sequencer-feeds.mdx

import { ClickToZoom, CodeSample } from "@components"
import { Aside } from "@components"

> Layer 2 (L2) networks, such as Arbitrum, rely on sequencers to efficiently manage transaction ordering, execution, and batching before submitting them to Layer 1 (L1) blockchains like Ethereum. The sequencer plays a crucial role in optimizing transaction throughput, reducing fees, and ensuring fast finality on L2 networks, making it a key component of their scalability and performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optimistic rollups (e.g., Arbitrum, Optimism) and many ZK-rollups rely on sequencers to efficiently manage transaction ordering, execution, and batching before submitting them to Layer 1 (L1) blockchains like Ethereum. The sequencer plays a crucial role in optimizing transaction throughput, reducing fees, and ensuring fast transaction confirmations on L2 networks, making it a key component of their scalability and performance.
```

Reviewer: The ultimate finality still comes from L1, so it is better to talk about near-instant confirmation rather than finality

> However, if the sequencer becomes unavailable, users will lose access to the standard read/write APIs, preventing them from interacting with applications on the L2 network. While the L2 chain continues operating, most users will be unable to access it unless they interact directly with the underlying L1 rollup contracts. This creates an unfair advantage for users with the technical capability to bypass the sequencer, leading to potential issues such as imbalanced access to applications and financial instability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if the sequencer becomes unavailable, users will lose access to the standard read/write APIs, preventing them from interacting with applications on the L2 network. Although the L2 chain's security and state commitments remain enforced by Layer 1, no new batched blocks will be produced by the sequencer. Users with sufficient technical expertise can still interact directly with the network through the underlying rollup contracts on L1. However, this process is more complex and costly, creating an unfair advantage for those who can bypass the sequencer. This imbalance in access can lead to disruptions or distortions in applications, such as liquidations or market operations that rely on timely transactions.
```
